RB Leipzig's Dani Olmo scored one and made another as Spain beat UEFA Euro 2024 hosts Germany in extra time of a captivating quarter-final.

Spain 2-1 Germany (after AET)
Goals: 1-0 Olmo 51' (assist: Yamal), 1-1 Wirtz 89' (assist: Kimmich), 2-1 Merino 119' (assist: Olmo)
Sent off: Carvajal 120'+5

Spain took the game to Germany in the opening exchanges, with Pedri whipping a long-range shot down the throat of Manuel Neuer before going off injured. Nico Williams and Yamine Lamal fired off two more warning shots, but Germany rode the storm and slowly began to assert themselves on the contest. David Raum twice got in behind the Spain defence, albeit misplacing the final pass. Joshua Kimmich found more joy on the opposite flank, but Kai Havertz was unable to generate the necessary power on his header to seriously trouble Unai Simón. Havertz drilled straight at the goalkeeper with a shot on the turn, before Olmo - having replaced Pedri in the eighth minute - and Yamal tested Neuer's reflexes towards the end of an intriguing first half.

Álvaro Morata missed a great chance to break the deadlock soon after the restart, the Spain forward clearing the crossbar from close range. Germany didn't heed the warning as Yamal fed the run of Olmo, who steered a fine finish past Neuer from the edge of the area. Julian Nagelsmann responded by introducing Maximilian Mittelstädt and Niclas Füllkrug, the latter heading a Toni Kroos corner wide soon after. Half-time substitute Robert Andrich made Simón work as Germany laid siege to the Spain goal. The foot of Simón's left-hand post then prevented Füllkrug from turning in fellow sub Florian Wirtz's right-wing cross. Havertz sent an attempted lob agonisingly over following a mistake by Simón, but Germany were not to be denied. With 89 minutes on the clock, Kimmich rose at the back post to head Mittelstädt's cross down for Wirtz to slam home the equaliser.

Wirtz was a hive of activity as Germany carried the momentum of their late equaliser into extra time. The Bayer Leverkusen talisman might have doubled his tally after good work from Füllkrug, but sent a presentable opening from the edge of the area wide. Jamal Musiala had penalty appeals for a possible handball against Marc Cucurella waved away, before Simón was called on to swat clear a Füllkrug diving header. Just when it looked like the game would be settled on penalties, however, ex-Borussia Dortmund midfielder Mikel Merino headed in a brilliant Olmo cross to break Germany hearts. Füllkrug flashed a header wide and Dani Carvajal was sent off at the death, but it was just not to be for the host nation.